# PODNAME: DBIO::Manual::DocMap
# ABSTRACT: What documentation do we have?
=head1 Manuals

=over 4

=item L<DBIO::Manual> - User's Manual overview.

=item L<DBIO::Manual::QuickStart> - Up and running with DBIO in 10 minutes.

=item L<DBIO::Manual::Intro> - More detailed introduction to setting up and using DBIO.

=item L<DBIO::Manual::SQLHackers> - How to use DBIO if you know SQL (external, available on CPAN)

=item L<DBIO::Manual::Joining> - Joining tables with DBIO.

=item L<DBIO::Manual::Features> - A boatload of DBIO features with links to respective documentation.

=item L<DBIO::Manual::Glossary> - What do all those terms mean?

=item L<DBIO::Manual::Cookbook> - Various short recipes on how to do things.

=item L<DBIO::Manual::FAQ> - Frequently Asked Questions.

=item L<DBIO::Manual::Troubleshooting> - What to do if things go wrong (diagnostics of known error messages).

=back

=head1 Driver distributions

Database-specific storage implementations are split into dedicated
distributions. Install the driver distribution that matches your backend:

=over 4

=item L<DBIO::PostgreSQL> (distribution: C<DBIO-PostgreSQL>)

=item L<DBIO::MySQL> (distribution: C<DBIO-MySQL>)

=item L<DBIO::SQLite> (distribution: C<DBIO-SQLite>)

=back

Additional DBIO driver distributions exist for other databases; some are still
in migration from the historical monolithic test setup.

=head1 Some essential reference documentation

The first two list items are the most important.

=over 4

=item L<DBIO::ResultSet/search> - Selecting and manipulating sets.

The DSL (mini-language) for query composition is only partially explained there,
see L<SQL::Abstract/WHERE CLAUSES> for the complete details.

=item L<C<$schema>::Result::C<$resultclass>|DBIO::Manual::ResultClass>
- Classes representing a single result (row) from a DB query.

Such classes normally subclass L<DBIO::Core>, the methods inherited
from L<DBIO::Row|DBIO::Row/METHODS> and
L<DBIO::Relationship::Base|DBIO::Relationship::Base/METHODS>
are used most often.

=item L<DBIO::ResultSetColumn> - Perform operations on a single column of a ResultSet.

=item L<DBIO::ResultSource> - Source/Table definition functions.

=item L<DBIO::Schema> - Overall sources, and connection container.

=item L<DBIO::Relationship> - Simple relationship declarations.

=item L<DBIO::Relationship::Base> - Relationship declaration details.

=item L<DBIO::InflateColumn> - Making objects out of your column values.

=back
